# Master's Thesis 2022-2023
## Summary
This repository contains the scripts necessary to create the phosphorylation site datasets needed for P-site prediction, run the *PSitePredict* deep learning algorithm and perform comparative analyses/judge performances.

## Folders
---
1. *scripts*: contains all scripts for P-site dataset creation, model training and analyses.
2. *PSite_Files*: contains the raw FASTA files for the serine/threonine and tyrosine datasets, split into separate files for training (85%), testing (10%) and validation (5%). It also contains comma-separated files in which the proteins have been fragmented into smaller sequences and where the labels (# and @) have been removed. These .csv files were used to generate the complex representations.
3. *Kinase_Specificity*: contains three .json files with Python dictionaries linking P-sites (i.e. substrates) to their Kinase Group. Version 2 is the result of running the current iteration of **Kinase_Specificity.py**, Version 1 is deprecated from a previous iteration and **TopRank** is the result of simply assigning the Kinase Group with rank number 1 to the susbtrate.
---

## Data sources
* One-hot encoded representations were generated by running **OneHot_Encoding.py** on the protein fragments.
* ESM representations were generated by running the [ESM-2 (650M)](https://dl.fbaipublicfiles.com/fair-esm/models/esm2_t33_650M_UR50D.pt) model obtained from *github.com/facebookresearch/esm*. Next, **Remove_ESM_Padding.py** was called to restore the lengths of the protein fragments to the original size.
* CARP representations were generated by running the [CARP-640M](https://zenodo.org/record/6564798/files/carp_640M.pt?download=1) model obtained from *https://github.com/microsoft/protein-sequence-models*.
* AlphaFold2 representations were generated by running [VIBFold](https://github.com/jasperzuallaert/VIBFold/) found at *https://github.com/jasperzuallaert/VIBFold/*. Afterwards, **Extract_reps.py** was called to extract solely the representations generated by the first and third models and convert the .pkl files to .pt files.
* Structure-enhanced versions were generated by running **Create_RepPLus.py**, which called functions from **AddStructureData.py**
